The Project Gutenberg EBook of Highwayman of the Void, by Dirk Wylie

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Highwayman of the Void

Author: Dirk Wylie

Release Date: September 12, 2020 [EBook #63189]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HIGHWAYMAN OF THE VOID ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                        Highwayman Of The Void

                             By DIRK WYLIE

             Ironic destiny had brought outlaw Steve Nolan
            across the star lanes to icy Pinto and tangled
              his life again with the man he had sworn to
              kill. Once more he was trapped in a maze of
             Galactic intrigue that reached far back into
                  his past--and forward to his death.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1944.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Steve Nolan was three years dead, pyro-burned in the black space off
Luna when a prison break failed. But Nolan had a job to do. Nolan came
back.

Where the Avalon Trail bends across Annihilation Range, a thousand icy
miles from Pluto's northern stem, Nolan stopped and closed the intake
valve of his helmet. Count five seconds, and he unhooked the exhausted
tank of oxygen; count ten more and it was spinning away, end over end
over Pluto's frozen surface, and a new tank was already in place. He
slipped the pressure valve and inhaled deeply of the new air.

He'd come ten miles by the phosphorescent figures on the nightstone
markers beside the trail. Fifteen more miles to go.

His cold black eyes stared absently at the east, where the pseudo-life
of the great Plutonian crystals rolled in a shifting, tinkling sea. He
noted the water-avid crystals, and noted the three crablike crawlers
that munched a solitary clump of metallic grass. You don't walk, talk
and breathe after a Tri-planet Lawman has declared you dead unless you
note everything around you and react to what may be dangerous.

But he was looking beyond the familiar Plutonian drear, to the eastern
horizon where faint lights gleamed in the dark. That was Port Avalon.
That was where Steve Nolan was bound.

Woller was in Avalon. The Alan Woller who had made him an outlaw,
roaming the star trails from Pluto to the Satellites, never daring to
return to the inner worlds where Tri-planet kept order.

There was a slow pulse mounting in Nolan's throat as he walked on,
savagely kicking a crab-shelled crawler from his path. He'd seen
the newssheet, months old, in a rickety old port on one of the
Satellites--Io? Ganymede?--when he was down to forty credits and a
friendly bartender. It hadn't been much of an item. The kind a country
editor throws into his finance column when he unexpectedly loses an ad
and has to fill space.

    "The new shipping company, which expects to do much for improving
    commercial relations with the outer planets, is headed by Alan
    Woller, formerly with the Interplanetary Telenews Company. Woller
    is remembered as the prosecution's star witness in the trial of
    Steve Nolan, the Junta agent indicted for treason three years ago.
    Nolan, sentenced to life imprisonment in Luna Cave, was killed
    while attempting to escape.

    "The new company is capitalized at over a billion dollars, and has
    already taken options on bases in...."

The drink had drained out of Steve Nolan when he saw that. And the
bartender had been too friendly for his own good. He'd been a soft
touch for five hundred credits.

That had been rocket fare to Pluto for Nolan.

       *       *       *       *       *

He felt the drumming with the soles of his feet, a hard, grinding
sensation against his metal boots. He jumped off the trail quickly and
whirled to watch for the approaching skid.

It was moving slowly, chugging along on a single jet.

_Clogged feeders_, Nolan thought as he felt the uneven vibrations. _If
he doesn't watch out he'll have a backblast._

The skid faltered past him, no faster than he could run. He looked away
from the incandescent flare of the one tail jet, then that stopped too.
Tall as a man, a dozen feet long, the skid lay waiting on the trail.

Waiting for Steve Nolan?

Anything was better than walking. Nolan walked up to the skid, not
fast, and kicked solidly at the entrance. It slid open with a creaking
noise and he was in the tank, sealing the outer door behind him.

The inner door didn't open. A female voice from a speaker said, "Who
are you?"

Steve waited till he saw the pressure and temperature gauges shoot up
to normal, then swung open his faceplate. "Matthews is the name," he
lied easily, out of three long years of practice. "I thought you were
waiting for me. Say the word and I'll get out again if I was wrong."

"Oh, no." The girl's voice hesitated a second. "What are you doing out
here?"

"I'm on my way to Avalon, out of Aylette. A skid bus took me across the
Ice Plains, then I caught a lift on a prospector's skid. He turned off
ten miles back and I decided to walk the rest of the way."

"Do you know anything about skids? Mine isn't working very well. I'll
pay you if you can--"

"I'm not a mechanic," Nolan said wearily.

"Oh. Then you can't fix it."

"I didn't say that. You can't pay me for it. I'll take a lift to
Avalon, though."

"A lift? But I don't know you from Adam."

Nolan sighed. "Lady, I don't know you either. Believe me, all I want is
a ride. It'll take me four hours to walk to Avalon. I can't spare the
time if I can help it." He waited a second. No answer. He shrugged and
finished his speech. "I'll make you a proposition. Let me in and I'll
fix your jets. We'll be in Avalon in twenty minutes, I'll get out and
we'll never see each other again. Don't let me in and I'll tear these
ignition wires right out of the lock. Then we'll both hitchhike."

The girl's voice came with controlled anger. "You win," she said. "Come
in." There was a soft click, and the inner door yielded under Nolan's
hand. He stepped in.

"No hard feelings," he said mildly. "I really wanted the ride. One
thing you might remember in the future, though--there are no ignition
wires in an air lock."

       *       *       *       *       *

She was pretty, she was small, she was blue-eyed and brunette. But
she didn't say a word to him. She kept to her seat at the controls,
watching him lift the top off the distributing chamber, prod around in
the gummy mess inside for a second, then replace it and nod.

"You can start it up now, lady," he said. He glanced over her shoulder
through the plastic panel, to where Avalon's lights were glowing. Where
Woller was. "And the quicker," he said, "the better."

The girl looked at him curiously but said nothing. She turned and
fingered the controls. The song of power that came out of the skid's
jets brought a quick, slight smile to her lips. Nolan caught a glimpse
of her eyes reflected back at him from the plastic panel. Appreciative
eyes.

He averted his look. Would there be another time when he could meet the
gaze of a decent girl and answer it?

_When Woller's dead_, his subconscious answered him. _Until then you're
not a man, Nolan. You're a weapon!_

The skid was climbing, hugging the side of one of the vast foothills
to Annihilation Range itself, a hundred-foot chasm on one side and the
cliff on the other. Nolan watched the girl's hands for a sharp second,
then relaxed. She knew what she was doing. Unerringly the skid split
the center of the trail, following its many turns as though on a track.
But--

A sudden high sound escaped her lips. Her foot trod hard on the
back-jet pedal. The skid slewed crazily, its side crunching against the
cliff as it halted.

"What the--" snarled Nolan, hand leaping to the concealed pyro he wore
under his shirt. Then he saw.

Ahead of them was an immense rounded bulk, dome-shaped, black as the
frozen night. A crawler ... but what a crawler! Its horny shell was
half again the height of a man, filling the trail from cliff to chasm
brink. There was no passing that beast. No wonder there had been no
traffic from Avalon!

Mutely the girl turned to Nolan. He grinned sourly, then clambered into
the heat suit he'd just put off.

He eyed the girl for a second. "I'm going to have to trust you. I have
to get to Avalon, so I have to get this misbegotten monstrosity out of
my way. And I have to leave the skid to do it. That gives you a fair,
clear chance."

The girl shook her head. "I'll take you to Avalon. I owe you that much.
But--but how--"

"Watch," Nolan said curtly, and climbed into the tank. Before he closed
the door a thought struck him.

He poked his head out at her. "If anything should go wrong," he said,
"and I find myself scattered all over that valley down there, you'd
better stay put. Keep the crawler away with the brake jet. And wait for
someone to come along. You're not the skidster to back this crate all
the way down the trail, with just a brake jet."

Then he slammed the inner door, sealed his helmet, pushed his way out.

The crawler was even bigger than he'd thought. Standing within ten
feet of it, he felt tiny and weak, a toy before this massive brute.
Like ancient Earth dinosaurs, the crawlers kept growing as long as
they lived. Tiny as the palm of a man's hand, foot-high creatures like
those Nolan had kicked out of his way an hour before or monstrosities
like the one before him--all three types existed side by side. Only
seldom did they grow as great as this. Invulnerable though they were,
they perished of starvation, when their bulk grew too much for their
thousands of tiny legs to carry.

Out of the ebon hulk of the thing came poking a minute head,
goggle-eyed, with a luminous halo of green tendrils surrounding it.
It blinked weakly at Nolan. He waited patiently. If the thing was
convinced he was harmless.

It was. Recovering from the shock of the skid's arrival it began to
prepare for motion again. The head poked out toward the skid on a long,
scrawny neck, examined it minutely. The big carapace shivered and rose
slightly off the ground as the multitude of tiny legs took up the task
of carrying it forward.

Nolan stood motionless. The creature moved ponderously toward him,
ignoring him. In the dull mind of the creature an object as tiny as
a man was nothing. Even the skid was merely another sort of boulder,
against which it could lean, send it hurtling over to destruction, out
of its way.

It moved forward till the hard horn almost touched him. Then Nolan
leaped.

This was the moment of decision. He circled the long neck with one
lashing arm, clamped on it all the pressure he could bring to bear. It
was the one sensitive spot the creature had--and protected, normally,
by armor battleship-thick.

Nolan strained the muscles of his arm, cursing the cushion of air
inside his suit that made a pillow for the beast. The slippery flesh
coiled and writhed in his grip; the beast exhaled a great, whistling
screech of agony and the snakelike neck curved around. The popeyed head
darted in at him, tiny mouth distended to show raw, red flesh inside.
It battered ineffectually against the heavy plastic faceplate of his
suit.

The crawler vented its whistling sigh again and staggered drunkenly
away. Away from the remorseless pressure on its sore spot, away from
the agonizing weight of him. Its tiny legs carried it rocking sidewise.

Then abruptly they tried to halt it, gave sharp warning to the tiny
brain. It was too late.

The scrambling legs flailed for a foothold and found vacuum. Nolan gave
a final heave, felt the thing slide away from him, leaped back. Just
in time. He himself was teetering on the brink of the chasm as the
crawler, tiny head darting frantically, soundlessly around, slid over
and disappeared.

He didn't look down. The clattering and crashing vibrations from below
told what happened. He turned, shook himself and headed for the skid.

The girl was waiting for him. Nolan was mildly surprised. She looked at
him curiously as he entered.

"A dirty job," she offered tentatively.

He shrugged. "Yes," he said. "Let's get moving."

She turned without a word. All the way back to Avalon, her back was a
silent reproach. Friendship, it said, had been offered--and rebuffed.

Nolan had his private thoughts, and dwelt in them. Except for the
muffled blast of the rockets there was no sound in the skid until
they'd jetted into the great cargo lock in Avalon's crystal dome and
the handlers had come to slide the skid into a parking space.

Then, as they got out, she smiled suddenly.

She said, "I guess I misjudged you, Mr. Matthews. I'm sorry I was
discourteous, but a girl can't be too careful. Let me take you to
dinner for an apology."

Nolan paused and stared at her soberly. Then, "No, thanks," he said. "I
meant it when I said I wasn't interested in you. I have things on my
mind already." He ignored her outstretched hand, turned to leave, then
stopped. "Oh, yes," he said. "Thanks for the ride."

He walked cumbrously over to a storage cubicle without looking back.
He stripped off his heat suit and checked it with a stout man in
Pluto-city green.

It was time to plan his next move. There was a pilot's hangout, he
remembered, a saloon called the Golden Ray. He took a worn notebook
from his shirt pocket, thumbed it to the forgotten address and held the
page up for the checking attendant to see.

"How do I get there?"

The man's eyes widened a fraction as he took the address in. He
shrugged imperceptibly. "Any slidewalk going north," he said. "Get off
at the Hub and you'll be within a couple blocks of it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Nolan nodded and headed for a moving sidewalk. The notebook went back
into the pocket of his open-necked black shirt, and the hand that
put it there paused a second to touch reassuringly the weight of a
slim-barreled pyro that swung beneath his armpit, out of sight. It was
nice to know it was there, even though he didn't need it--yet.

He paused in a robot restaurant to eat. Saloons like the Golden Ray
don't sell much food--particularly to those who have tasted it once. It
was getting on toward night.

The slidewalks were fast, and the first man he stopped at the Hub told
him all he needed to know to find the saloon. Once he got within a
block of it, it all began to come back. It had been years since he'd
been there, but the place hadn't changed.

A blast of sound struck him as he clawed his way through thick tobacco
smoke and sweet Martian hop-incense fumes to the bar. He nodded his
head, and the short motion yanked a fat bartender to him.

The man's slitted eyes peeped surprisedly through the surrounding
tallow.

"Gunner!" he whispered, amiable but hoarse. "Thought you were somewhere
around Jupe. What'll it be?"

"It'll be nothing right now," Nolan said. "I thought Petersen might be
here. I want to see him."

"Oh, sure," the bartender said. "He's dealin' red-dog at one o' the
tables in the back."

Nolan was called "Gunner" by those who knew him by his alias--He'd
never taken the trouble to think up a first name for "Matthews." He
nodded and stepped away.

It wasn't hard to find Petersen when you knew his habits. The wrinkled
little man always sat in the noisiest spot he could find. This time
it was a table right behind the four-piece orchestra, pride of the
proprietor's heart.

Nolan stood silently for a moment behind the little man's chair to
watch the play. He marveled at the ease with which Petersen's gnarled
fingers handled the flying pasteboards. As usual, Petersen's pile of
chips was low, and the set of his back was discouraged.

Nolan grinned. It was part of Petersen's stock-in-trade to look like
the tail end of a losing streak. The sucker trade stays away from a
winning gambler. But they flocked to Petersen--and his pockets were
always clinking.

Petersen's gambler's sixth sense was functioning. He twitched his
shoulders uncomfortably, then turned around, glaring up. "Say," he
began, "who the hell are--Oh, Gunner!"

Nolan nodded. "Hey there, Peter," he said.

Petersen grinned and blinked. He looked with regret at his top card,
then at Nolan. "No?" he asked wistfully.

Nolan shook his head. "No."

The little man shrugged and flipped his cards away. "Okay," he said
cheerfully, shoveling his chips into his clanking pockets. "Lead on,
Gunner."

Nolan led on, to a more secluded corner where the clamor of the alleged
orchestra was less deafening. He sent a waiter off for a bottle of
sealed Terrestrial Scotch, then turned to Petersen.

"Where's Woller?" he asked.

Petersen scowled. "Listen, Steve," he begged, "stay out of trouble.
Woller's big here."

"Don't call me Steve," Nolan said mildly. Two living men knew that
Nolan and Matthews were the same. Petersen was one of them--Nolan
himself the other. "I manage my own affairs. I want to see Woller."

"Okay," Petersen groaned. "He's at the Elena. The big hotel near South
Lock."

Nolan nodded. "Good enough," he said. "I'll take care of my business
with him right away."

The greasy-aproned waiter came back with the Scotch. Nolan inspected
the seal critically, then broke it and poured two generous slugs.
"How!" he said. "What've you been doing with yourself, Pete?"

Petersen swallowed his Scotch, grimaced non-committally. "Following the
prospectors," he said. "Making money and losing it. It's been a long
time since you were here."

Nolan ignored the implied question. "Pretty long," he agreed. "I wasn't
figuring on coming, but I heard Woller was here."

Petersen nodded his head sadly. "You're aching for trouble," he
observed. "Woller's no man to buck up against. He's got money behind
him."

"Whose money?"

"I dunno. Some Martian syndicate, they say. He's come a long way since
he was your boss at Telenews."

"Not so long I couldn't follow him."

Petersen cocked an eyebrow, then poured another round. "You followed
him into a bad spot," he said slowly. "This whole town is be-jittered.
He's doing about what he likes and nobody says boo."

"Why?"

Petersen frowned. "'Cause they're scared, it looks. Scared of the
Junta. Talk is there are Junta men around. I wouldn't have to remind
you, I guess, of what Woller can say about you if he sees you."

Nolan nodded. "He won't see me--in time for it to do him any good."

Petersen shivered. "You're building up trouble," he repeated. "Woller's
pretty near running this place."

"'A louse,'" Nolan quoted, "'enthroned in luxury, will still a
loathsome insect be.' That's Woller."

Petersen's wizened little troll-face gaped at him. "Lice bite," he said
succinctly.

Nolan said soberly, "Live ones do. After tonight Woller may not be able
to bite anybody. Dead lice have no friends."


                                  II

Steve Nolan was deceptively slender in his open-necked, black military
shirt and trim khaki slacks. In the half-hearted illumination thrown by
Avalon's old gasglow lights, he looked almost boyish.

But he didn't look like the pale youth he'd been three years before.
The good-natured roundness of his face had contracted to show the hard
bone underneath. There was the ghost of a scar close to an eye, and the
seared mark of a pyro burn where neck joined his right shoulder. The
long fingers that once had twirled the toggles of a field newscaster's
walky-talky now were better acquainted with the groves of a pyro butt.

"For the last time," he said, "you're better off home in bed. I think
there may be trouble."

Petersen looked sour. "Good thinking," he said. "I have a hunch that
way, too. I'm going to stick around."

Nolan shrugged. He eyed the Hotel Elena, towering almost up to the
crystal dome, directly across the street from him. "It's your neck,"
he said. "You can catch me when I fly out." He glanced quickly at a
wrist-chrono. "A quarter after four," he said. "If I'm not out in half
an hour don't wait up. I may be detained."

Before Petersen could answer he was crossing the street, entering the
hotel. The Elena was large, and the night clerk couldn't be expected to
know every guest. He glanced up as Nolan entered, then went back to
nodding over his magazine. Nolan walked to the grav-well and stepped in.

Nolan let the curiously soothing grav-currents flow over him, carrying
him up till he'd ascended twelve floors. That was where Woller was, by
the best information Petersen had been able to give him. He reached out
a hand and swung himself out of the flow, into a silent corridor.

Not quite silent. Nolan listened and smiled. There was a party
somewhere overhead; a vise-box blared briefly in one of the rooms on
this corridor as a sleepless guest hunted music. From the grav-well
came the low humming of the generators.

That was fine. If it were necessary to make any noise it might be
confused with the vise-box, or the singing from overhead.

Woller's door was locked, of course. Nolan bent over the keyhole for a
second. There was a tinny, springy _click_, and the door drifted open
under the slow pressure of his hand.

The room was large and empty. A library, perhaps, as well as he could
judge by the intermittent blood-tinted light that filtered in from an
advertising stereolume across the street. Nolan flipped his cigarette
lighter out, held it aloft and pressed the button. In the dim glow it
shed he saw twin doors. After a moment's hesitation, he chose one,
opened it gently, slipped through into a bedroom.

A night light glowed softly on the wall, revealing nothing. Nolan
sniffed the air curiously, then wrinkled his nose. Perfume! Woller had
added a new vice to his character. Nolan grimaced contemptuously, then
moved toward the indistinct figure on the bed. His right hand dipped
inside his shirt, came away with the slim pyro protruding from his fist.

"Woller," he said. "Wake up. You've got company."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a rustle from the bed, a gasp, a metallic click. Nolan jumped
back, cursing. He flung an arm over his head as the overhead lumes
burst into blinding light. But he'd caught a quick, stunning glimpse
of what was on the bed and, quicker than starflight, his pyro jutted
toward the lumes, flared wickedly. All lights died as the blast
shorted the wires.

It had been a girl in the bed, blinking up sleepily, mouth a taut
line of surprise. _The_ girl--the one from the skid, the one he'd
encountered in Annihilation Range! She had no more of a look at him
than he at her, and she had been sleep-dazed, staring up at the light.
Perhaps she hadn't recognized him--

"Hold still," he hissed--there is no personality to a whisper. "Where's
Alan Woller?"

"Who are you?" the girl's voice came, a trifle unsteady. Good--she
hadn't recognized him!

Nolan laughed voicelessly. "I'm the man with the gun," he replied. "I
ask the questions. Where's Woller?"

"None of your business," the girl said. There was a note of confidence
in her voice, and suddenly Nolan felt a furtive movement from the bed.
Was there an alarm--a bell to summon servants?

"Hold it!" he whispered sharply. "One wrong move and I'll kill you. I
mean business--and I want an answer."

The girl's voice was even now. "I won't give one."

Nolan's brows drew down over his eyes. What was this girl to Woller?
Whatever the connection was, by rights he should take no chances. The
girl was a danger to him--and the life of no woman on Woller's string
should be permitted to stand between him and the chance for vengeance
on the man who had framed him.

"I'll give you ten seconds," he whispered harshly.

But already he was stepping silently backward, concealed in the
abyss-black gloom of the chamber. He reached noiselessly behind him for
the knob of the door. He was being a fool and he knew it. But he had
seen honesty in her eyes, back on the skid, and even the yearning for
revenge couldn't make him blot that out with pyro-flame.

He opened the door, slid out, closed it softly behind him. The girl
said nothing, perhaps had not known he had gone. Nolan cast a quick
longing glance at the other door, but there was no time. In seconds the
girl would discover she was alone. There would be an alarm, surely.

A dim thread of light showed him the door to the hall. Catlike he
crossed to it, then halted, petrified. Men were coming down the
hall, several of them by the voices. He caught a snatch of a rasping
complaint: "_Old man Woller's tin soldiers, that's us. Who the hell
does he--_"

Nolan swore lividly under his breath. The end of the trail had come.

But he stepped back a pace and stood there, pyro up-tilted and ready.
He would have a split-second's advantage. If only there were no more
than two or three of them--

       *       *       *       *       *

And then the sound was drowned out. A sharp, moaning screech came from
outside. A harsh metallic wail that climbed for the frigid heavens
above, louder than the screaming trumpets of Ragnarök.

The alarm sirens! There was a break in the crystal dome that held the
life of Avalon!

Meteorite, accident or simple fatigue--the dome had cracked. Air and
heat would vanish. Death would tenant the city.

There was a sudden, sharp babble from the men outside, then the
pounding of footsteps, halting as they dove into the grav-shaft.
Nolan's chance! But he froze in his tracks, then whirled. He ran to the
door behind him and wrenched it open.

"Get a heat suit!" he bawled to the girl on the bed. "Dome's cracked!
You've got maybe twenty minutes--less, if it's a bad break!"

His voice was a bellow--there was no time for whispers. No time, and
perhaps no need. If the dome had gone, Avalon might be a city of
corpses, heat suits or none, before help could arrive with fresh oxygen
tanks from far-away Aylette. Disguise would hardly matter then.

But he wasted no time in thought. He was out the door, down the hall
and dropping into the cushioning grav-web of the descending shaft in
seconds. Guests were waking in their rooms. The corridors were filling
with shouting men and women. The shriek of emergency trucks filtered in
from the street, and the hoarse bellow of the alarm sirens multiplied
the havoc done to the peace of the night.

If he could get to a ship--?

But the slidewalks would be jammed with panicky humans, all with the
same thought. A heat suit was his only chance. And the nearest ones he
knew of were at South Lock, at the base of the dome itself!

He swung himself out of the shaft, raced across the lobby, which was
already beginning to fill with people intent on escape. He was out the
door with the van of them, racing across a still empty street toward
South Lock.

A slim, pale figure darted across in front of him. He moved to dodge
past, then slowed momentarily as he saw who it was.

"Steve!" Only one man knew that name--Petersen!

"Pete! What are you waiting for? Come on--get a suit!"

Petersen sighed, touched Nolan's shoulder to halt him. "There's no
hurry, pal," he said mildly.

"No hurry! The dome alarm--"

Petersen shook his head. "Forget it," he said. "I turned the alarm in
myself."

       *       *       *       *       *

Toward what passed for morning in Avalon, the confusion died down. The
emergency cars were off the streets, the sirens had long since stopped
wailing and the last irate citizen had retired for what remained of a
night's sleep.

Petersen came back from the window of his shabby little one-room
apartment and reported on progress to Nolan.

"All quiet," he said. "Sure you won't change your mind and lie down for
a while? You'll be needing sleep pretty soon."

Nolan swallowed the rest of his coffee, stubbed out a cigarette and
shook his head. "No time," he said. He glanced at his chrono. "I figure
on leaving in twenty minutes. You're sure Woller's going to be on that
ship?"

Petersen grinned. "Pretty sure," he said. "I have my ways."

"You looked good on the deal last night," Nolan said. "You and your
hammy ideas. I would have got out without all that."

Petersen was serious. "Not alive, no. When I saw those apes coming down
the street I was pretty sure something was up. So I got on a phone--I
got a friend works for Woller's company, and he reads the boss'
mail--and that's what he told me. Woller has to get back to the Inner
Planets in a hurry. He's sent a bunch of his company guards to pick up
some stuff at his apartment. The only thing I could think of was to
turn in the alarm and hope you'd get out in the confusion. You're a
smart boy, but you ain't Dead-eye Dick, friend. You couldn't of fought
it out with five of Woller's finest."

Nolan inclined his head. "Maybe you're right. You say something big
seems to be up?"

"What else? He gets a red-hot sealed teleflash from Aylette. Sealed,
mind you--my friend can't listen in. He cancels the orders of the
only ship his new company has in Avalon--cancels all the cargo
contracts--and takes off in it in the middle of the night for Aylette.
He'll be back here this morning, they say, to pick up those papers.
Then they're off again, deep space, this time. The clearance says Mars."

Nolan nodded. His face was impassive, but a slight crinkling of the
lines around his lean nose showed thought. What was Woller up to?

It was curiously difficult to concentrate on Woller. Absently, he found
himself saying. "And you don't know who the girl was?"

"My information don't go that far," Petersen admitted. "He has a
daughter some place, but she ain't supposed to be here now. But what's
your guess about this she?"

"My guess is you're right," Nolan agreed reluctantly. There was
something about soft blue eyes and silk-fine black hair that did not
fit in the same picture with Woller.

Petersen was looking at him shrewdly, with a dim light of understanding
glowing in his eyes and a hint of pity. As Nolan looked at him,
Petersen looked away, began fumbling inside his waist-band.

"What're you doing?" Nolan asked curiously.

"You'll need money," said Petersen. He finished unbuckling and dragged
out an oiled-silk money belt. Without opening it, he tossed it to
Nolan. "Here. You'll have to bid high to get passage on Woller's ship.
This'll help."

Nolan nodded. "Thanks," he said. "Look, I--"

Petersen waved a hand airily. "Forget it. As long as there's enough
radium on Pluto for prospectors to find, I'll have plenty money."

"Sure," said Nolan. "But the thanks still goes." He closed his eyes for
a second, rubbed them. Then he blinked rapidly, took out his pyro and
checked it. Full clip, save the one shell he'd used on the light last
night. Twenty-three shots. He deftly slipped another cartridge in to
make the full two dozen, then replaced the gun in its shoulder holster.

"You're going to get into trouble with that thing," Petersen prophesied.

Nolan shrugged. "I've got a name to live up to. A gunner has to have a
gun--and I kind of think I'm going to need this one." He glanced at the
chrono again and stood up, stretching.

"Well, good-by," he said casually. "I owe you a bunch of favors. You
won't have to remind me."

"Course not," Petersen agreed. "Wouldn't do much good. But I'll sort of
mention it to your heirs."

       *       *       *       *       *

At the Operations lock of the Avalon spaceport Nolan opened the money
belt Petersen had given him for the first time. He peered inside and
whistled.

The cards had been with Petersen, all right. The little man had carried
a young fortune around with him. He tucked the belt in a pocket with a
mental resolve to pay it back some day, if he lived long enough, and
went into the observation room.

Through the crystal dome he could see the ship, the only one on the
field. It was a beauty--brand-new and glistening. By the look of her,
she was the latest type. Pure gravity drive, the rocket jets used only
for landing. It had a name, limned phosphorescent on a dark panel in
the glittering hull: _Dragonfly_.

He turned and walked over to the port clearance officer. "I have to get
to Mars," he said. "I hear this ship's bound there. Who do I see about
booking passage?"

The port official scratched his bony head. "It's an unscheduled run,"
he said, "and I dunno if they're taking any passengers. But over
there--" he waved a hand--"is the second mate. He might help you."

"Thanks." Nolan walked over, eyeing the pallid, short-bodied Venusian
indicated. The man was staring glumly out of the observation panel.

"You the second on the ship out there?" Nolan asked.

The man turned slowly and looked him up and down. "Yeah," he said
finally. "What about it?"

Nolan allowed his eyes to narrow conspiratorially. "I hear you're
bound for Mars," he said, lowering his voice. "Any chance of taking a
passenger?"

"No."

Nolan tapped a pocket. "Listen," he said, "it isn't just that I want a
ride. I have to get to Mars. I'll pay."

The Venusian laughed sharply and Nolan thought, not for the first time,
how superior environment is to heredity. The Venusians, like most of
the System's intelligent life, were descended from Earthmen all right,
but the adjective that described them best was "fishy."

The second said, "Pay? You haven't got enough money to get you into the
lock of that ship."

"Oh, I don't know," Nolan said easily. He took the money belt out of
his pocket, flashed the contents for a second. "I meant it," he said.
"I have to get to Mars. Name your price--I've got it."

The Venusian's eyes widened. Nolan saw, from the corner of his eye, a
skid rocketing across the field. It halted by the _Dragonfly_, and the
ship's lock opened. Two bulky, heat-suited figures hurried out of the
skid, into the ship.

"What do you say?" Nolan persisted, accelerated by the sight of the
figures. One of them would be Woller's thug with the apparently vital
papers. That would be the big one--the smaller might be a clerk from
his office.

"Okay," the mate capitulated. "Tell you what. It'll cost you ten
thousand credits. If it's worth that to you, all right."

Nolan shrugged wryly. "It's worth my neck," he grinned confidentially.

The Venusian grinned moistly back. "Payable in advance," he specified.
"Now. Give it to me and I'll go out and arrange the deal with the
captain."

_Keeping a percentage of course_, Nolan thought; but he only nodded
and silently counted out the money. The Venusian grabbed it without
checking the count. He said, "Okay, I'll be back in a minute," and left.

Nolan watched him struggle into his suit and clamber across the frigid
soil of the field. The lock opened for him, then closed again. Nolan
sensed a sudden uneasiness. He almost jumped when the port officer came
up behind him and said:

"Wouldn't take you, huh?"

Nolan turned. "Sure," he said. "He had to go arrange it with the
captain. I'll go out with him when he comes back for his clearance
papers."

"Clearance papers!" the official barked. "Good Lord, man, they've had
those for hours. That man isn't coming back!"


                                  III

Nolan, swearing incandescently, flung his heat-suit voucher at the
officer, grabbed the first suit in the rack and was in the main lock,
waiting for the inner door to close, before he put it on. He had
already sealed the suit and stepped out on the field when he noticed
what the excited hammering of the port official on the lock door should
have told him.

The suit had only a single oxygen tank in its clip--and the gauge
showed "empty"!

He hesitated only a moment. His eye caught a glimpse of the
_Dragonfly_, etched sharply against the black horizon by the field's
blazing floodlights. Its smooth lines were suddenly blurred and
indistinct. The grav-web was building up around it. In a moment it
would be gone!

"Damn!" yelled Nolan, to the sole detriment of his own eardrums.
Already the slight amount of air in his suit was nearly used up. But as
soon as the web reached full focus the _Dragonfly_ would blast off and
Woller would be beyond reach for a long time!

Nolan swore fervently, then sealed his writhing lips to save air. He
set off in a slow, heavy trot for the shimmering spaceship. He was
breathing pure carbon dioxide and staggering nicely by the time he
pushed his way through the thickening resistance of the grav-web to the
massive outer door of the lock.

His bulging eyes caught the lever that opened the lock, guarded by a
scoop-shaped streamshield. He yanked it blindly, saw the heavy panel
roll aside, stumbled in.

Some member of the crew must have been watching--someone with
compassion, unexpected enough in a ship of Woller's. The lock door
clanged shut behind him and clean air hissed in. Nolan tore frantically
at his faceplate and gulped deeply, dizzyingly.

The metal flooring shuddered. He felt an intolerable weight drag at his
water-weak body as the ship took off. He hadn't made it by much, at
that. A couple of seconds more and he would have been left.

"Boy!" Nolan gasped. "Somebody sure doesn't want me along on this ride."

The inner door was sliding open. Nolan stepped out into a well lit
corridor, almost colliding with the flabby bulk of the Venusian.

The mate glared at him darkly, the hand on his waist poised
suggestively above the butt of a pyro.

Before he could speak, Nolan said mildly, "You're a thieving louse. But
I'm on the ship, and I won't hold it against you. Only--don't try that
again."

The mate flushed. "The captain didn't want to take you," he mumbled. "I
was going to send your dough back soon's we touched ground."

"Sure," Nolan agreed. "Having my full name and address the way you do,
it'd be easy. Well, skip it. Where's my cabin?"

You wouldn't call it exactly hospitable, the way the mate stalled as
long as he could, obviously trying to cudgel his feeble Venusian brain
into some plan for getting rid of the unwanted passenger. But Nolan
finally got his cabin.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was the smallest and worst on the ship, of course, but the ship was
a beauty. Nolan smiled in real appreciation when he saw the room. The
furniture was glow-tinted plastic; the bed was covered with Earth silk.

"Beat it," he told the mate, and watched the door close behind him.
Then he sat down to chart a course.

Woller might recognize him.

That was the first danger. True, Nolan had been reported dead and
Woller knew nothing to the contrary. It was only a miracle that Nolan
wasn't dead, in fact. Only the incredible chance of his being picked
up in midspace, where he floated helplessly, one shoulder brutally
pyro-scarred and half the air gone from his suit, had saved him then.

That had been one miracle, for even the ranging, avid patrol boats
hadn't been able to find him after his mad leap from a lock of the ship
that was carrying him to the Moon.

But that miracle had occurred. And the second miracle was that the
pleasure craft that saved him was piloted by a man who lived outside
the law but had an iron-clad code of honesty--who wouldn't turn Nolan
in for the bounty money on fugitives. Pete Petersen's scrawny shoulders
bore no wings, but he'd seemed like an angel to Nolan that desolate
day, when he'd seen the flare of Nolan's desperate signal rocket and
swung round in a wide arc to pick him up, eventually to take him to the
lawless safety of the Belt.

To everyone but Petersen, Steve Nolan was dead. And the little shots
of gray now running through Nolan's dark hair, the scar that crossed
one tanned cheek, gave him a new personality. He looked slender and
dangerous as a lunging rapier, and every bit as cold.

But Woller would have good cause to remember Nolan. Woller had sat
there in the courtroom, back on Earth. He'd sat there the whole
dragging week of the trial, with Nolan's eyes on him every minute. He
looked directly at Nolan, even while he was in the chair, telling the
lies that linked Nolan with the Junta--the secret, revolutionary group
of outer-planet malcontents that sought to overthrow Tri-planet Law's
peace and order.

Nolan's lips contorted savagely as he recalled that. A traitor! His
sole crime had been that he knew too much about Woller, his boss!

Woller had been clever about it. The law itself had removed Nolan,
a menace to his lawless schemes. When Nolan, on his own initiative,
had talked and bribed his way into seeing a confessed and condemned
saboteur of the Junta for an interview, he'd found to his sick
astonishment that the man was one he had seen in Woller's own office,
not two months before.

He'd been childishly simple about it, had confronted Woller and
demanded an explanation. Woller had put on his friendliest face and
promised one--later....

And then Woller had turned the dogs loose.

Within an hour Nolan was in jail for the bribery of the prison
officials. The next morning came the incredible indictment: Sabotage
for the Junta!

Nolan grimaced, recalled the careful, hideous network of lies and
forgeries, the distorted evidence, the perjuries. But he had been one
man, and Woller represented vast power.

Then abruptly there was a knock on the door. Jolted out of his
thoughts, Nolan started, then called: "Just a minute."

This was the moment--and he had no plan. His pyro slid out into his
hand. He broke it, stared at the twenty-four potent heat charges. They
would be plan enough for him, if he got a clear shot at Woller. But if
he should be disarmed, if Woller should suspect.

A moment later, the pyro hidden beneath his shirt again, he opened the
door. It was the Venusian second, as before.

"Captain wants to see you," he growled. "Come on."

The _Dragonfly_ was a single-deck craft, the captain's cabin located
topside of the deck and amidships. Nolan looked around curiously,
despite his internal tension, as he followed the Venusian along. The
plastic keel panel underfoot showed an infinity of stars. There was
one, large and bright, outstanding among the lesser stars. Nolan
recognized it--the Sun, parent star to the farflung planet they'd just
left. Now it was dim and feeble, but by the time they got within sight
of the Inner Worlds it would be a ravenous thing, reaching out to
destroy them with lethal radiations.

Out of curiosity, he asked. "When are you going to opaque?"

"Huh?" The Venusian looked startled for a second; then his
blubber-drowned little eyes became shrewd. "Oh, about Orbit Saturn, I
guess."

       *       *       *       *       *

Nolan suppressed a sudden frown. He asked carefully, "Say, how do you
do it on these new-type ships anyhow? All the ones I've been on, you
had to have the panels filter-shuttered before they lifted gravs."

"Paint," the mate said curtly. "Okay, here we are."

He stood aside, pointed to a door with a glowing golden star embossed
on it. Nolan nodded and entered, but his thoughts were racing.

Paint the panels! It would take the whole crew, and they'd never get
it off. If they opaqued with paint the ship would be blind for weeks.
The filter shutters--great strips of polarized colloid--were the only
solution to the problem of keeping out the worst of the sun's dread
radiations, but admitting enough light to guide the ship. But they had
to be put on externally, before the ship took off. Mars? This ship,
ports transparent as they were, would never dare approach the sun's
blinding energies closer than Jupiter!

_No wonder they didn't want me_, Nolan thought grimly. _They're not
going within a hundred million miles of Mars!_

The thought froze in Nolan's mind as he entered the captain's cabin.
First he saw the captain, a tall, demon-black Martio-Terrestrial,
standing before his own desk. Then his eyes flicked past, toward the
florid-faced man who sat behind the desk, fumbling with a cigarette
lighter.

And then, for the first time in three years, he was face to face with
Alan Woller.

Nolan might have showed a flicker of emotion in his face. Heaven knows,
the blast of iron hatred that surged up through his body was powerful
enough. But Woller was lighting a cigarette. The second that it took
him to finish it and look up was time enough for Nolan to freeze.

"Vincennes is my name," the captain was saying. "What's yours?"

"Matthews. I'm sorry to have forced my way onto your ship, but I had to
get to Mars."

Woller looked up then, and a sudden trace of consternation flashed into
his eyes. It died away, but a doubt remained.

He stared intently at Nolan, then said: "Why?"

Nolan smiled easily. "A lot of reasons--all of them personal. Who are
you?"

Woller stood up. "I own this ship," he said coldly. "I didn't ask you
aboard. Now that you're here, you'll answer my question or get off."

The time for a showdown had arrived. _Well_, Nolan thought, _it had to
come some time._ He was strangely relaxed.

He shrugged. "You've got a point there," he admitted. "Well--"

He frowned and raised his hand as though to scratch his head, changed
the motion in mid-air. And with the speed of a hopped-up _narcophene_
smoker, the thin-snouted pyro was in his fist, slowly traversing a
lethal arc that covered both men.

His voice was taut as he spoke. "It's your ship, Woller, but I'm taking
it over. Woller--Alan Woller--look at me. _Do you know who I am?_"

Woller stared deep into the icy eyes confronting him. The doubt flared
again in his own. His jaw dropped slack. His brows lifted and he
whispered, "Nolan!"

Nolan didn't bother to nod. He said grimly, "Your hands--hold them
where they are. You, too, Vincennes. I've come a long way for this
and I don't mind killing. You taught me that, Woller. A man's life is
nothing. Mine was nothing to you, when it endangered the dirty little
treacheries you were working."

The life seemed to have gone out of Woller and left only a hulking,
pallid carcass, propped up by the internal pressure of its own fear.
There was murky horror crawling in his eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Steve Nolan looked at him and his thin lips curled into a snarling
grin. But those were only his lips. Strangely, there was no triumph in
his heart, none of the fierce pleasure he'd dreamed of all those dreary
years. There was only dull disgust, and the hint of a long-dead hope
for rest again. Rest, and the common things of life on the Earth which
was forbidden to him.

Woller could die before him now, and he would be avenged. But Woller
alive could say the words that would wipe out the banishment, would
return him to the green star that was home. Woller could be made to
confess--

"I ought to blast you now," he said in a soft, chill tone that was like
a whip to Woller, jerking him upright. "I ought to, and I will if I
must. But you can live if you want to."

Woller was licking his lips, his face a mask, only his panic-stricken
eyes alive.

"You can live," Nolan repeated. "A full statement about the Junta
frame, in writing. Write it out and thumbprint it, and we'll telestat
it to the nearest TPL station. Then you can have the lifeboat, Woller,
and as much of a start as TPL gives you. Are you willing to pay that
much for your life, Woller?"

Woller's lips were stiff but he forced the words through. "Go to hell."

Nolan nodded, and the deadly weariness settled down over him again.
"I see your point, of course," he said slowly. "Tri-planet doesn't
come out here much and a man is reasonably safe from them. But you,
Woller--power's your life blood. And a man on the run can't have much
power. I know."

His finger curled on the trigger of the pyro and Woller, staring
avidly, desperately, whitened at the mouth. His lips moved as though
about to form words--

Nolan's trigger-sharp senses caught a hint of movement behind him.
_Fool!_ he thought desperately. _The door!_ He tried to hurl his body
aside, out of the way of the door that opened behind him. But he
couldn't do that and keep the pyro leveled on the two men at the desk.
He saw Woller, exultant hatred leaping into his purpled face, plunging
for a drawer of the desk; saw the door opening and someone stepping
through. Then, just as he was leveling the gun on Woller again,
he saw the flashing swing of the other man in the room. Forgotten
Vincennes--with a heavy nightstone paperweight held bludgeon-like in
his hand, leaping in at him. He had no chance even to try to turn. The
weight was coming down on the side of his head. All he could do was try
to roll with it.

But the momentum was immense and the heavy weight struck him down to
the floor, drove him headlong into unconsciousness....

       *       *       *       *       *

Somebody was kicking him. Nolan groaned once, then compressed his lips
as he remembered where he was.

He opened his eyes and rolled over. The blubbery Venusian second
was standing over him, face sullen but eyes glinting with perverse
pleasure. He raised his heavy spaceman's boot again--

"Hold it," said Woller from the desk. They were still in the cabin.

Woller got up, came over, looking down at Nolan. His bearing was
confident again; he exuded an aura of brutal power.

"You should have killed me, Nolan," he said. "You only get the one
chance, you see."

Nolan silently pushed himself erect. His ribs were agonized where the
second had booted them, and a blinding throb in the skull reminded him
of the captain's blow. He was conscious that his armpit holster hung
light. The pyro was gone.

Vincennes had left. Only Woller and the Venusian second were in the
cabin with him. "My only doubt," Woller was saying, "is whether to
blast you now or save you for a little later, when I'll have more time."

"Sure," said Nolan tonelessly. "If you want my vote, it's for now. Get
it over with."

Woller nodded. "That would be much pleasanter for you. I think I'll
save you." He nodded slowly. Then, to the mate, "Take him below!"

Back down the corridor, the mocking stars still bright through
the crystal underfoot. Back and down, till they came to the gray
room, where the pulsing, whining generators spun their web of
anti-gravitational power.

"We don't have a brig," the mate apologized. "But I think this will
hold you in."

Eyes warily on Nolan, he circled him and opened a round metal door. It
was an unused storeroom, bare except for rows of vacant metal shelves.

"In you go," said the Venusian, and Nolan complied. The door slammed
behind him and was bolted.

There was a whine in the air, he noticed. The singing of the
grav-generators. It was not unpleasant ... at least, not unbearable,
he corrected himself. But how it persisted! It was constant as the
keening of a jammed frequency-modulator, high as the wail of a banshee.

He let his aching body slip to the floor, lay there without even trying
to think. He raised his head for a searching second, but there was
nothing to see. Bare walls, bare shelves.

He was helpless. His chance might come when the second let him out.
Till then, he would sleep.

When had he slept last? Save for the few minutes of unconsciousness, it
was easily thirty hours. He pillowed his head on his arm....

He moved his head uncomfortably, burrowed his ear deeper into his
biceps. That damned keening! He shifted restlessly, stopped his exposed
ear with his other hand. That movement racked the beaten ribs, but the
shrilling, soft and remorseless, kept on. It was enough to drive a man
mad! It was--

He sat bolt upright, eyes flaring angrily. That was what Woller had
planned!

It was torture--subtle, undramatic, simple. But pure, horrid torture.

Nolan's face was gray with strain. It was incredible that a sound,
a noise, could become a threat. He'd heard the same sound a million
times before, though never at such close range, or from such titanic
generators. But now--

He began trying to fill his mind with other things, but there was
no room for thought in a brain that was brimming with naked sound.
Snatches of school-days poetry, long columns of multiplication
tables--They jumbled in his brain. The lines ran together and muddled,
were drowned out by the wail of the generators. He gave up and sat
there, forcing himself to be still, while the sound hovered in the
atmosphere all around him, his jaw muscles taut enough to bite through
steel, a great pulse pounding in his temples....

Flesh could stand only so much. After a while--he didn't know when--he
was mercifully unconscious.

       *       *       *       *       *

A volcano erupted under him and awoke. His whole body was a mass of
flame now, head throbbing like the jets of a twenty-ton freight skid,
chest and ribs as sore as though they were flayed. A sickening weight
held him crushed against the metal floor.

The roaring from without was the sound of the rockets, loud enough to
drown out the whine that had nearly killed him. The ship was landing.
And at once there was a gentle jar, then a dizzying vertigo as the
grav-web was cut off abruptly. The rockets died down and were silent.

Everything was silent. The change was fantastic, a dream. Nolan, lying
there, thought the silence was the finest thing he had ever heard.

It didn't last. There were footsteps outside, and the Venusian second
mate entered. "On your feet," he said curtly. "The boss is ready for
you."

Nolan stood up cautiously. His feet were shaky, but he could use
them. He stepped over the rounded sill and followed the Venusian's
directions. There were men in the corridor, some of them in heat
suits. Nolan wondered where they were. Neptune was on the other side
of the sun--could they be as far in as Uranus? How long had he been
unconscious!

"Get moving," repeated the second, and Nolan moved.

The blessed stillness! He was grinning to himself as he walked along
the corridor, listening for the lethal whine that wasn't there any
more. When they got to where Woller, space-suited and bloated, was
directing a crew of men in the moving of a bulky object, Woller noted
the grin. He was not pleased.

"Enjoying yourself, Nolan?" he asked, unsmiling. "That will have to
stop."

A grin stayed on Nolan's face, but it was not the same one. It was a
savage threat. Woller looked at it, and looked hastily away.

"Stand him over in the corner," he said to the Venusian second. "I'll
attend to him right away. Business first."

The second jerked a thumb at the corner formed by the airlock door and
the wall of the corridor. Nolan looked in the direction indicated, and
a sudden tic in his brows showed a thought that had come to him. The
red signal light winked out as he watched; the inner door had closed.

He stared through the transparency at what was beyond. Darkness was
all he could see--darkness, and the light-dotted outline of buildings
in the distance. Just beyond the lock was something that looked like a
skid, with men's figures around it. His forehead puckered, and his eyes
returned to the signal light, now dark--

The Venusian second watched Nolan limp slowly over to the indicated
position. His eyes narrowed. "Hey, what's the matter?" he asked surlily.

Nolan shook his head. "Something in my shoe," he said. He halted and
balanced himself on one foot, poking into the offending footgear. "A
button, I guess," he said as drew out, concealed, something that he
knew quite well was _not_ a button.

He breathed a silent prayer, and it was answered. The Venusian grunted
and turned away. Nolan walked quickly over to the wall, by the lock
light, turned and stood surveying the scene without interest. His hands
apparently were linked idly behind him--but behind his back they were
moving swiftly, dexterously. A _clink_ of glass sounded, and Nolan
winced as a sharp sliver cut his thumb. Then he stood motionless,
waiting.

The men were shock-wrapping a long, casket-like object. To judge by the
care they were using, the contents were delicate and the handling would
be rough, Nolan noted absently. Explosives, perhaps?

The last loop of elastic webbing went around it, and the Venusian
second pulled it taut. "All right," he grunted. "Take it away."

"Lock!" bawled Woller as the men picked up the bundle. That was Nolan's
signal.

As slowly as he could manage he stepped idly away from the lock, away
from the signal light, hugging the wall.

A deckhand, not troubling to look at the warning light across the
corridor--Nolan mentally thanked his gods--touched the release that
opened the lock door. And--

Ravenous flame lashed out from the wall.


                                  IV

Nolan was in motion before the incandescent gases had died. The
half-dozen men who had been in the corridor were either down on the
floor or blindly reeling about. Even without a proton-reflector behind
it to focus its fierce energies, a pyro charge exploded on unarmored
men can do a lot of damage.

Nolan blessed the hunch that had warned of trouble, the remembrance
of an old spacer's trick that had led him to hide a pyro charge in
his shoe, back there in the stateroom. Still it had been luck, pure
and simple, that gave him the chance to open the signal light socket,
take out the lume and put the pyro pellet between the contacts. When
he'd got out of range and the automatic warning as the lock opened had
touched it off--

Catastrophe. He'd known when to close his eyes, where to stand for
safety. The others hadn't. And so the others were blind.

He grabbed a pyro from a writhing wretch on the floor--there was
horror in him as he saw the seared face that had once been that of the
Venusian second. He picked a heat suit out of the cubby, and was into
it and in the lock before the blinded men who had escaped the full
flare could recover themselves.

The lock doors took an eternity to work, but at last he was out in the
cold, black open. A hasty glance at the landscape told him nothing.
Uranus or Pluto--it had to be one of them. That was all.

A man was just coming out of the skid, perhaps twenty feet away. Nolan
clicked on his radio, waited for the inevitable question--but it didn't
come. The man's transparent faceplate merely turned incuriously to
Nolan for a second, then bent to examination of the fastenings of the
skid's lock. Nolan turned calmly and strode off along the side of the
ship. When he rounded the stern he broke into a run, heading straight
out across charred earth to a chain of hummocks that promised shelter.

How long would pursuit be delayed? Late or soon, it would come. Nolan
realized that he had no plan. But he had life, and freedom.

He topped the first of the hummocks, scrambled down into the trough
behind it. He was relatively safe there, as he cautiously elevated his
head to examine the ship and what lay behind it.

Already--it had been scant minutes since the carnage in the lock
corridor--the search for him had begun. He saw a perfectly round spot
of brilliance fall on the side of the ship, then dance away. Through
the ice-clear Plutonian night he could make out the figure of a man
with a hand light scanning the belly of the ship, looking to see if
Nolan had hidden himself there. They would quickly learn the answer to
that--and know what he had done.

Beyond the ship were a few dim lights, distorted by a crystal dome. It
was another city--or not quite a city, but a domed settlement out here
in the wilderness.

Without warning a sun blossomed on the side of the ship. Nolan stood
frozen for a split second, then dropped, cursing. They'd seen him,
somehow, had turned the ship's powerful landing beam on him. But how?

A soundless bolt of lightning that splashed against a higher hill
behind him drove speculation out of his mind. Nolan frowned. The
ship was armed--he hadn't known that. Installation of pyros in
interplanetary craft was the most forbidden thing of the starways. But
there was no time for wonder.

As another blast sheared off the crest of a hill, Nolan, keeping low,
scuttled away behind the shelter of the hummocks. His only safety was
in flight. Armor he had none. The frozen gases that comprised the
hummocks would never stop the dread thrust of a properly-aimed pyro.

He fled a hundred yards, then waited. Silence. He risked a quick look,
saw nothing, retired behind the shelter of the hill to consider. They'd
suspended fire--did they think him dead? Did they know he had escaped?

Or was there a hidden danger in this? It might be a ruse. They could be
waiting for him to move, to show himself....

Nolan shivered, and absently turned up the heat control of his suit. He
felt suddenly hopeless. One man against--what? His thoughts, unbidden,
reverted to the girl he had left in Avalon, and to the sordid fear that
she might be what she seemed. Nolan's cheek muscles drew tight, and his
face hardened. Woller, partly protected by his heat suit, undoubtedly
had lived through the instant inferno when the pyro charge went off.
That was one more thing against him--the girl. Nolan sighed.

And a faint reverberation on the soles of his feet brought him stark
upright, staring frantically over the sheltering mound of ice. A skid
was racing down on him.

Before he could move its light flared out, spotted him.

And a tiny voice within his helmet said, "Don't move, Nolan. You can't
get away now. You'll die if you try. Next time you play hide-and-seek
with me, Nolan--don't leave your helmet radio on!"

       *       *       *       *       *

If Woller had burned with rage before, now he was frozen. He was a
blind man there before Nolan, his eyes swathed in thick white bandages.
But the hulking Earthman with the pyro who stood by his side, and lean
black Captain Vincennes at the controls, were eyes enough for him.

"But I wish I could see you myself," Woller said softly, his
fingers drumming idly against the wide fabric arm of his cushioned
passenger's chair. "The ship's surgeon says it may be weeks before I
see again. If I could afford to keep you alive that long--" He sighed
regretfully. "No, I can't afford it," he concluded. "There are more
important things, though nothing--" his voice shook but kept its chill
calm--"that would give me more pleasure than to see you die."

"We could save him, Woller," Vincennes said. "Pickle him in a sleep-box
like--"

"Be still, Vincennes!" Woller's voice was sharp. "I'll ask for advice
when I want it!"

A sleep-box--Nolan remembered suddenly what they were. Small coffins,
large enough for a man, equipped with an atomic-powered generator that
kept the occupant in a sort of half-death, not breathing or able to
move, but capable of existing almost indefinitely without food.

Nolan wondered absently what they were doing with sleep-boxes, then
gave it up. It didn't matter. He cursed the carelessness that had led
him to leave the radio on in his suit. It had been simple for the
_Dragonfly's_ radio-man to tune in on its carrier wave, get a radio
fix on his position.

The skid swerved abruptly in a sloppy turn, and the surly earth man at
the controls halted it and looked around. "Okay," he grunted. "Here we
are."

Woller nodded. "Take me out," he ordered. "Nolan, too."

Nolan peered out the window. Absorbed in self-recrimination, he hadn't
paid attention to their trip. He was surprised to find gleaming metal
all around the skid. They were in a heat lock--they had come to the
domed settlement.

The Martian Vincennes went first. As soon as the pressure gauge showed
he was safely outside the Earthman gestured to Nolan. He wedged himself
wearily into the air chamber, closed the door. He was ready for a break
when the outer portal opened ... but there was no break. Not with
Vincennes and his ready pyro there.

Woller, stumbling and cursing, followed, and the Earthman. Vincennes
opened the main lock and they went into the dome.

There were two great ships inside, dimly lighted by a string of pale
lumes overhead. Nolan looked at the mass of them, at the rodlike
projections clustered around the nose, and knew them for what they were.
Warships!

Scaffolding was still around them. They were not yet ready for
launching, not ready for whatever mission of treason Woller had
planned them for. But by the look of them the day was close. And Nolan
was--awaiting execution.

One look at Woller's iron countenance under the tape showed that.
Vincennes' hand, tight-knuckled around the butt of his gun, was ample
confirmation.

But the moment had not yet come. Woller said, "Are they waiting?"

Vincennes' glance sped to a lighted door at the far side of the hangar.
"Looks that way," he said. "Shall I attend to Nolan first? He's
tricky--"

Woller laughed softly. "He's used up all his tricks. We'll take him
with us, alive. He might come in handy. He's been out of sight for
three years now. I'm just a bit curious where he's been. Perhaps it's
somewhere we should know about."

He groped for Vincennes' arm, found it. "Let's go," he said. "We can't
keep the chief waiting."

       *       *       *       *       *

Nolan was first through the door. He was in a small room where four or
five ordinary-looking people were siting around at ease. One was in
uniform, the others the perfect example of quite successful businessmen.

"Is he here yet?" whispered Woller. The Martian looked around the room
before he answered.

"Not yet. Cafferty--Lieutenant Brie--Searle--Vremczyk. That's all."

The dumpling-shaped soldier in the gray-green of Pluto's militia stared
at Woller. "What the devil's the matter with your face?" he spluttered.

Woller answered before Vincennes could. "I had an accident, Brie," he
snapped. "Keep your fat nose out of it."

The dumpling turned purple. But he said nothing, and Nolan realized
Woller's importance in this gathering. This gathering of--what?

Nolan looked around quickly, and the answer raced to his brain.
An officer of Pluto's defense forces--two or three well-dressed
men, apparently wealthy, with something about them that shrieked
"politico"--and Woller, once overlord of the System's greatest
news-dissemination agency, still a man of vast influence. It looked
like the back room of a political convention--or the gathering of a
cabal.

_The Junta!_

It had to be the Junta.

What they were saying began to make sense. A tall man in dove gray was
speaking.

"We're not satisfied, candidly," he was saying. "Woller, you've had
more money than our resources can afford. Everything you've asked for
you got. And what have you to show for it? Three ships--not one of them
fit to fly."

Woller laughed contemptuously. "Candidly, Cafferty," he mimicked,
"I don't care how you feel. My money's gone right along with yours.
Warships cost money."

"So do thousand-acre Martian estates," shot the little lieutenant. "How
much of your money is in these ships--and how much of ours is in your
pockets?"

Woller turned his blind eyes toward the lieutenant and stood
motionless for a second. Then, softly, "Once again, Brie--keep your fat
face shut. You are not indispensable."

The pudgy soldier glared and opened his mouth to speak--but an
interruption halted the quarrel. The door opened without warning, and
another man entered.

What he looked like Nolan could not guess. He wore a heat suit with the
helmet down. The polar-plastic faceplate was set for one-way vision.
Even his voice was muffled and distorted as he spoke.

"Are we all here?" he asked. The others seemed to note nothing odd
about his incognito--did he always disguise himself, Nolan wondered?
"Where's Orlando?"

Brie answered. "He was on Mars, on the other side of the sun. He's on
his way."

The mirror-faced helmet bobbed as its owner nodded. Then it turned
toward Nolan. "What's this?" he asked, advancing.

Vincennes gestured with the pyro. "His name is Nolan," he said. "He
tried to get rough with Mr. Woller. He's dangerous."

"Dangerous!" The blurred voice was angry. "Then why is he here? We have
enough danger as it is. Give me that pyro!"

This was it, Nolan knew, and he tensed his body for the leap he had
to attempt, though he knew it was useless. The man in the heat suit
reached for Vincennes' pyro. In the moment while the gun was passing
from hand to hand there might be a chance....

There were shouts from outside, and the sound of running feet. The man
in the heat suit whirled. "Bolt that door!" he shouted. "Bolt it! Now!"

Brie, dazed for a second, sprang to obey. Then he turned, his plump,
pale face damp with sudden sweat. "What is this, Chief?" he asked. "Are
we--is there trouble?"

_Chief!_ thought Nolan. So this hooded stranger was the leader of the
conspiracy. Masked, disguised like the bandit chief of a flamboyant
operetta.

The Chief was laughing. "Lots of trouble," he answered. The dull
shouting from outside continued, rising to a crescendo as whoever was
without pounded against the door and found it locked. Then abruptly it
subsided. The huge telescreen on the desk buzzed sharply. The solid
little man seated beside it automatically clicked the switch that
turned it on.

"Turn it off!" bellowed the man in the heat suit. But it was already
working. The prismatic flare on the screen showed no vision impulses
were coming in, showed that whoever was calling was using a sound
transmitter only--a portable set like those in a heat suit. A voice
said sharply:

"Attention, Junta! The man who claims to be the Chief is a masquerader.
Kill him! This is the Chief speaking now!"


                                   V

Doubt sprang into the eyes of every man present. It lasted only a
second--for the masquerader's action proved the charge against him.

He grappled the pyro from dazed Vincennes, sprang back, fired a warning
blast that smashed the telescreen.

"Don't move, anybody!" he ordered. "Nolan--take their guns!"

Nolan threw questions to the winds, sped to obey. He found a
business-like little heat pencil in the inner pockets of the chunky
man, a pearl-handled burlesque of the service pyro in the gaudy gemmed
holster Lieutenant Brie dangled from his belt. Nothing else--and his
search was thorough.

"All set," he reported.

"Good enough. Searle--are there heat suits in this room?"

The chunky man looked stricken. He nodded. "In that locker," he said
dizzily, pointing to the wall.

"Get them out, Nolan. Give one to every man and put one on yourself.
Those outside will take their chances."

Nolan raced to comply. The stillness outside the door was menacing.
While he was dragging the suits out, throwing them at the men, while
they were putting them on, the man called Searle was staring at the
masquerader with dawning comprehension.

"What are you going to do?" he whispered. "Are you--"

The man in the heat suit laughed sharply. "Get your suit on," he said.
"You know what I'm going to do. All set?" Every man was garbed, helmets
down. "Ten seconds to seal them. One, two, three--"

He counted slowly and Nolan watched him with fascination. At _five_ the
gauntleted left hand came up to the butt of the pyro, worked the tiny
chambering lever half a dozen times. Nolan gasped in spite of himself.
There were seven lethal pyro charges in the chamber of that gun--enough
to blast down a mountain!

The count was finished. Through Nolan's helmet radio, automatically
turned on, the man's calm voice ordered, "All right, Nolan. Open the
door and let them in!"

Nolan moved. As his hand was on the lock, just as it turned and the
door swung loosely inward--

_Blam!_ the impostor swung and fired the massive charge in his pyro at
the thin wall that kept air and life in the dome!

They were running over icy ground. At most there was a minute or so of
advantage--less, if the men they'd left in the room had other weapons
concealed somewhere. And still Nolan didn't know who his savior was.

"All right, now," he panted over the helmet phone. "Give. Who are you?"

The answer was a chuckle, mixed with gasping as the smaller man strove
to match his speed. "Tell you later," he panted.

"Hold it!" Nolan broke in, suddenly recalling the oversight that had
been so disastrous before. "Don't tell me. Show me--and turn off your
radio. They've got tracers."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a snort of sudden comprehension from the phone, then silence.
Nolan looked to see the figure spurt into the lead, gesture ahead. They
were rounding the dome. The bulk of the _Dragonfly_ appeared, with a
big cargo skid drawn up beside it. The gesticulating arm of the other
man pointed directly at it.

Nolan glanced around. There was no one following--yet.

The men hadn't had weapons, then--and those who had been outside
would not be pursuing anybody. He tried to thrust from his mind the
recollection of what had happened when the sucking rush of escaping air
had thrown wide open the door he had unlocked, and the tug of naked
vacuum gripped the men behind it. A dozen of them there had been,
hulking brutes from the flight sheds of a system's blowsiest ports, and
one man in a heat suit, faceplate mirrored like that of the man Nolan
ran beside. It is not pleasant to see a strong man try to shriek in
agony, and fail because the air has bubbled from his lungs.

The outer door of the skid was open, and the impostor trotted in. When
Nolan was beside him he leaned on the lock control. Ever so slowly, the
outer door closed; slowly the inner opened.

They burst into a chamber where a man was just rising from a
telescreen, face contorted with consternation and hate, hand bringing
up a pyro from a drawer in the chart table.

The pseudo-chief's gun spoke first, and the head and shoulders of the
other disappeared in a burst of flame and sickening smoke. There was
no time for delicacy. Ruthlessly shoving the seared corpse away, the
stranger dove for the controls, touched the jet keys.

The ungainly skid shuddered, then drove forward. The stranger opened
all jets to the limits of their power. Creaking and groaning, the
skid responded. The dial of the speed indicator showed mounting
acceleration, far beyond what the ship was designed for.

Nolan, clinging with one arm to a floor-bolted chair, threw back his
helmet and yelled: "I'm ready any time! What's the story? Who the devil
are you?"

The impostor waved a hand impatiently. His muffled voice came: "Take a
look in there. There may be more aboard!"

Nolan grimaced and nodded. He picked his way over the jolting floor,
blaster out, to the threshold. His groping hand encountered the lume
switch, flooded the cargo hatch with light. It was almost empty. A few
crates, the long casket-like object he had seen in the ship. Nothing
behind which a man could hide.

Nolan turned to see the masquerader unzipping the folds of his heat
suit with one hand while he guided the careening skid with the other.
He brought out a tiny black box, opened it to show a key and a lever.
He thumbed the lever open, braced the box between his knees, began
tapping the key rhythmically. A curious shrill staccato came from the
box. _Dee dideedeedit didideedit deedeedit deedeedee didee didididit_--

After a second he stopped, waited. Then faintly an answer came back
from the box. _Deedeedee dideedidit_--

And silence. Satisfied, the man closed the box, slowed the skid to a
point where its guidance no longer required complete attention. They
had reached the ring of ice hummocks that surrounded Woller's dome. The
skid bounded over the first rise, zoomed through that trough and the
next; then the man kicked the rudder jets. It spun along the trough to
where the hummocks were highest; then he cut the jets.

He turned to Nolan, threw back his helmet.

"My God," gasped Nolan. "Pete!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Petersen grinned. "You called it, boy," he admitted. "Don't I get
around though?"

Nolan closed his eyes and tightened his grip on the back of his chair.
"The story," he said. "Quick."

Petersen shrugged. "How can I tell it quick? It's long.... Maybe if I
tell you one thing you can fill in the details."

"What's the one thing?"

"I work for TPL."

TPL--Tri-planet Law! That explained--

Nolan exhaled slowly. "I begin to see," he said. "I always did think
you knew too much for a guy that made his living at cards."

Petersen laughed. "My biggest trouble," he said wryly. "I can't win
at cards. Whatever I do. It's been quite a drawback to my career. You
can see how people would get suspicious of a professional gambler who
always loses. I had to keep on the move."

Nolan's brain was beginning to work again. "But listen," he said.
"How come you didn't turn me in when you picked me up--right after I
escaped? If you worked for the Law--"

Petersen's face grew serious. "Boy," he said, "you gave us a lot of
trouble. You and your escapes. We weren't planning to keep you in
jail, Steve. Any fool could see you were being framed--fixed court,
semi-pro witnesses. But TPL couldn't step in, out in the open. We
didn't know enough for a showdown. So you were going to be summoned
to Mars for further questioning. When we found out all you knew you
were to be taken care of some way or other. Given a new identity, kept
undercover until we were ready to move."

"And I jumped the gun."

Petersen nodded. "I was in the neighborhood, heading for Earth. The
TPL man on the ship called Earth Base; they called me. The ship had
you spotted, but they decided not to pick you up. Base figured that if
you thought you were being hunted you'd keep yourself under cover and
we wouldn't have to bother. And if I picked you up I could pump you
myself."

Nolan grinned. "How did you do?"

"Fine. You talked more than a ventriloquist with a two-tongued
dummy.... Then you turn up on Pluto, just when things are getting hot."

"After three years of hiding in third-grade ratholes for fear of the
law." There was no bitterness in Nolan's voice. Just a calm statement
of an unpleasant fact.

Petersen's voice was level, too, but his eyes were alert as he watched
Nolan. "That couldn't be helped, Steve. You know what was at stake."

Abruptly the grin returned. "The whole damned System, that's all,"
Nolan said a little proudly. "Well ... go ahead with your story."

Petersen shrugged. He looked a little relieved as he spoke. "You know
most of it. Oh--one part you don't know. Woller's daughter--her name's
Ailse--knew about what he was doing. She just found out about it. We
had a maid working in her home in Aylette--she didn't generally stay
with Woller; they didn't get along."

Nolan's brows lifted. "Oh?"

"Yep. Ailse was worried silly. She even talked to the maid--not much,
just enough that we could figure out what was happening. It seemed she
was going to confront Woller with what she knew, try to talk him out of
treason."

"A real good idea," Nolan remarked. "Knowing Woller--"

"That's how we knew where this base was. She told the maid. Oh, you do
know where you are, don't you? On Pluto. The wildest section there is,
north of Annihilation Range."

"How about this cockeyed disguise of yours? Who is this Chief you were
supposed to be?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Petersen frowned. "Don't know, exactly," he admitted. "There are
three men it could be--they're all connected with the Junta, we're
pretty sure. They're all on Saturn, and we got word that they were
rendezvousing here. We knew the boss kept his identity hidden by
wearing this get-up, so I was detailed to cut in."

Nolan nodded. Then, his thoughts reverting, he said. "Where's
the--where's Ailse now?"

Petersen looked unhappy. "Uh--I don't know. After you left we sent for
her, just to see what she knew that might help. The maid went after
her--and couldn't find her. She'd gone out of town, wasn't expected
back for some time. We couldn't wait. All the leaders of the Junta
meeting here--it was too big a chance."

Nolan said, "Well, what are we doing about it? They're all there, and
they're warned. And we're out here, parked on the edge of nowhere,
waiting for them to get up a scout party and grab us."

Petersen turned to look out the window in the direction of the dome. He
scanned the skies carefully, then pursed his lips.

"Well, no, Steve," he said, pointing. "Take a look."

Arrowing lines of fire were swooping down from far into the blackness.
Three trails of white flame showed where three ships were plummeting to
the surface. Nolan turned to Petersen with a startled question in his
eyes.

"Watch," Petersen advised. "This'll be worth seeing!"

Down and down they drove, faster than meteor ever fell. A mile above
the ground the jets behind died, and yellow flame burst ahead of them,
flaring quickly to white. They slowed, poised, and then, in perfect
unison, spun off to one side. They came around in a great circle and
dived at the ground again. And repeated the operation, over and over.

And abruptly Nolan saw what was happening. He was witnessing the
systematic annihilation of the domed settlement! Immense bursts of
fire from ship-sized pyros were blazing into the ground. The hummocks
prevented a dear view, but Nolan could see from the reflected glare on
the mountainsides behind that the destruction was frightful.

"I called them," Petersen said softly. "You saw me call them. That
black box--it's a telesonde."

Nolan didn't turn, fascinated by the sight. "What's a telesonde?" he
asked absently.

"A radio that carries neither voice nor vision. Only one note
short or long depending on how long the key is held down. Your
great-great-grandfather knew about it. It was the first method of
wireless communication. Now it's so completely forgotten that when
TPL researchers dug it up it was adopted as the most secret method of
communication available."

Nolan nodded his head. The ships came around again, and down. This time
the forward jets were delayed. When they flared out they persisted,
while the ships dropped gently out of sight. They were landing.

The destruction of the dome was complete.

Nolan turned away. "Quite a sight," he said slowly. "They deserved to
die, of course...."

"Steve."

Nolan's eyes narrowed suddenly. He looked at Petersen. "Yes?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Petersen, for once, seemed almost at a loss for words. He licked his
lips before he spoke. "Steve--there are one or two other things. Did
you know that Ailse wasn't Woller's daughter by blood?"

Nolan looked at him unbelievingly. "Not his daughter?"

Petersen shook his head. "Woller married a widow. A wealthy one, with a
daughter. They didn't get along too well. The woman died. Some people
thought it might be suicide."

The quick joy flooded up in Nolan. Petersen saw it and his face
grew somber. "That's one of the things, Steve," he said. "The other
one--Hell, this is hard to say."

Nolan stood up and the joy was gone from his face. "Damn you, Pete,"
he said emotionlessly. "Don't break things gently to me."

Petersen shrugged. "Ailse wasn't anywhere we could find her--and we
know a lot of places to look in. The ship left to come here. She was at
Woller's home till just before then. Woller sent men to bring something
from his apartment to the ship. I thought it was papers at the
time--but it could have been a girl. So--where does that leave Ailse?"

Where? Nolan stood rocklike as the thought trickled through the
automatic barrier his mind had set up. Where did it leave Ailse?

A charred fragment of what had once been beauty. A castoff target for
TPL's searching pyros.

"I'll say it again, Steve. You know what was at stake. If the Junta had
time--Well, we didn't know what kind of weapons they had there. That
was one reason why I was sent ahead in that crazy disguise. If I had
had time to scout around it might have been possible to do things less
bloodily. I didn't have time. We couldn't take chances."

There was no anger in Nolan, no room for it. He sat there, waiting for
Petersen to start the jets and send them back to the dome. He knew how
he would scour the ashes, hoping against hope. And he knew what he
would find.

It would have been better, he thought, almost to have died under
Woller's pyro, or the TPL ships'. If he'd stayed behind--if Woller had
put him in the sleep-box as Vincennes had suggested, and he had shared
obliteration with her....

The sleep-box! The casket!

       *       *       *       *       *

It took Petersen a full second to recover from his surprise when the
frozen face of Nolan suddenly glowed with hope, when he leaped up and
dashed into the cargo hatch. It took him minutes to follow him. Minutes
spent in making the difficult decision of whether or not he should
prevent a man from taking his own life.

The decision was wasted, he found. Behind the scattered boxes of pyro
shells, wedged into a corner of the hold, Nolan knelt beside a long,
narrow casket. Fiber shock-wrapping was scattered about. Nolan's
fumbling fingers were working the latch of the casket, lifting the
lid....

The shout that left his lips was deafening in the small hold. Petersen
looked closer, tiptoed up--

And all the way back to the waiting ships of the TPL Petersen was
grinning to himself. Though his hands guided the ship skillfully as
ever, though his gaze was outward at the flowing terrain beneath, he
saw but one thing.

The tableau as he had approached the casket and seen Nolan, face
indescribably tender, shutting off the sleep currents, reaching for the
ampoule of stimulant that would revive the unconscious dark-haired girl
within.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Highwayman of the Void, by Dirk Wylie

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HIGHWAYMAN OF THE VOID ***

***** This file should be named 63189-8.txt or 63189-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/1/8/63189/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
